our first guest is an award-winning and
knighted actor who when I was growing up
taught me everything I needed to know
about running a city and a starship
almost 20 years after saying farewell to
Starfleet and his crew he returns to the
role of jean-luc Picard in Star Trek
Picard and you thought I was a desperate
old man quixotic paranoid possibly
senile let's just leave it at quixotic
and now the windmills have turned out to
be Giants you want an apology
I want two squadron jean-luc Clancy out
there in the white system right now
beings who have as much right to life
and liberty as you and I all Commander
data are being hunted down by an enemy
who seeks to exterminate I look no
classy if you say this is not a job for
Starfleet then I'm sorry but you are a
waste of space new episodes of Star Trek
the cards streamed Thursdays on CBS all
access
please welcome Sir Patrick Stewart
[Applause]
[Music]
this is an absolute thrill I got to get
this out up to front I am a huge Star
Trek fan always have been when I was a
kid I come home from school at 4 o'clock
it would come on every day my friend Joe
would come over we'd religiously watch
every episode when the movie generations
came out I was there as soon as it came
out and then there's some photographic
evidence from I believe Halloween 1995
[Applause]
just so you know I I really mean it so I
think it's safe to say at least among
every mayor that I've I've known I'm
about as big a Star Trek fan as can be
but I gather there are a lot of figures
in public life and in politics who are
big fans Oh My yes you are may I call
you Pete by all means you are in very
good company
I have known one president to chairman
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
one of whom asked me may I sit in your
chair and and Secretary of State
Madeleine Albright was a huge fan so and
then we have the other stupid so welcome
to this company one day you know we
should have an event we'll gather all
these people together it will be a kind
of Star Trek convention but of a
different sort alone so let me say this
I mean you you montes the character but
you have a I think a commanding presence
it's safe to say I mean to the point
that senior military officers would want
to check for your permission before
sitting in in a chair so it must have
crossed your mind I mean so many figures
from entertainment now are in politics
the president of the Ukraine president
the United States has it ever crossed
your mind has anybody ever suggested
that you go into public life or hold
public office it has never crossed my
mind but yes there have been proposals
and suggestions one in the United
Kingdom I I've been a member of the
Labour Party for 35 years and I
committed my first act of civil
disobedience when I was five years old
at the the post-world War two general
election in 1945 when of course to
everyone's amazement Winston Churchill
was thrown out
and Clement Attlee got in and I have
been a left-wing man ever since which
sometimes it can create little problems
sometimes in the United States but I
would get a lot of fun out of it there's
nothing like sitting around a Beverly
Hills dining table with a lot of fancy
guests and telling them you're a
socialist yeah so um but I heard about
your affection for Sartre while you were
campaigning early on in the campaign I
heard about that
so I tuned into you you're terrific well
thank you you have a quality of speech
making which is gonna stand you in great
self because it's spontaneous it's
immediate its natural it doesn't sound
prepared in any way are you saying I
might have a future in late-night
television only if you will invite me
once a month also to say I also had the
great pleasure of seeing you and Sir Ian
McKellen perform on stage in New York in
Waiting for Godot I heard about that why
didn't you come back I don't think they
would have let me back back that Oh
obscure I mean I don't even know if I
wait I think I would have been a obscure
indiana mayor at the time but it was an
amazing thing to see and I know you and
Serena are famously close friends but I
wonder when you collaborate with a close
friend in such an intense professional
environment does that strengthen the
friendship does it test it what's it
like working so closely and so intensely
with it with a good friend like that it
does both pain and it's a little bit
like a marriage you know you and by the
way Sir Ian married my wife and I he
performed the ceremony he became
qualified online of course yeah you can
do this actually one of the one of the
great privileges of being a mayor is you
can you can marry people just like that
yeah just like as long as it's within
st. Joe County Indiana then then I could
marry had a couple
I was a little early in for work one day
and I was trying to avoid people
actually because the staff hadn't come
in yet
and this couple popped out of an
elevator they said you know oh we're so
glad you're here and I was thinking what
do you need and it turned out they were
on their way to the hospital she was
gonna get a c-section and they wanted to
be married so that they could tell her
parents that that they were married when
they also gave them the news about the
new little one so we we just went ahead
took a ribbon made it into a ring did it
on the spot it was great fun but I gotta
say I mean I can't imagine that I would
have performed the office nearly in as
much style as serein would have done he
was wonderful
there were actually two ceremonies which
is not generally known because we
discovered we were in Berkeley where we
were doing the Harold Pinter play ah
forget it
some Harold fair play and we learned
that he could not use his credentials in
Nevada where we were getting married my
wife is from Reno and we were in
California where the credentials were
accepted so in our last week one night
after the show we invited Ian and our
two other guests and a director to a
Mexican restaurant for dinner and it was
really closing down when we got there
it's very late
and Ian had brought with him a kind of
robe but our guests had no idea what was
happening and in fact we were formally
married in a Mexican restaurant so he
made a speech at the or the supposedly
authentic wedding which was so moving I
looked out and the audience were wiping
their men and women and I thought but
this is a wedding but it was so
emotional it was very powerful
look we I don't know how much time we
have these things go very fast
what for you Oh yep guy open an hour
face oh yes of course
oh my goodness
original that will have pride of place
well it's not just an original because
there are you know there are scores and
scores of copies oh my god this is my
working script what a treasure picard is
underlined and there even are I can't
find them but there are my hand written
on some well that is an absolute
treasure thank you what oh yes
absolutely right that's right there oh
right here yeah oh that's wonderful
well we are about to we are about to
test my my fandom in a new way when we
come back Patrick Stewart and I are
going to go head-to-head in Star Trek
trivia with a special guest so stick
around
congratulations on making it to the end
of the YouTube video why not celebrate
by clicking the subscribe button you
earned it